The President:
Hi, everybody.
In my State of the Union
Address, I talked about
the idea of
opportunity for all.
Opportunity is the idea at
the heart of this country
- that no matter who you
are or how you started
out, with hard work and
responsibility,
you can get ahead.
I ran for President to
restore that idea,
and I'm even more passionate
about it today.
Because while our economy
has been growing for four
years, and those at the
top are doing better than
ever, average wages
have barely budged.
Too many Americans are
working harder than ever
just to get by, let alone
get ahead - and that's
been true since long
before the recession hit.
We've got to reverse
those trends.
We've got to build an
economy that works
for everyone, not just
a fortunate few.
And the opportunity agenda
I laid out last week
will help us do that.
It's an agenda
with four parts.
Number one: more new jobs.
Number two: training folks
with the skills
to fill those jobs.
Number three: guaranteeing
every child access
to a world-class education.
And number four: making
sure that hard work pays
off, with wages you can
live on, savings you can
retire on, and health
insurance
that's there when you need it.
I want to work with
Congress
on this agenda where I can.
But in this year of
action,
whenever I can take steps
without legislation to expand
opportunity for more
American families, I will.
I've got a pen and a phone
- a pen to take executive
action, and a phone
to rally citizens
and business leaders who are
eager to create new jobs
and new opportunities.
And we've already begun.
In Wisconsin, I ordered an
across-the-board reform
of our training programs
to train folks with the
skills employers need, and
match them to good jobs
that need to be
filled right now.
In Pittsburgh, I directed
the Treasury to create
"my-RA," a new way for
working Americans,
even if you're not wealthy, to
start
your own retirement savings.
In Maryland, I rallied
the leaders of some
of America's biggest tech
companies to help us make
sure all our kids have
access to high-speed
internet and up-to-date
technology to help them
learn the skills they
need for the new economy.
And at the White House, I
brought together business
leaders who've committed
to helping more unemployed
Americans find work, no
matter
how long they've been looking.
And I directed the federal
government to make hiring
decisions the same
way - based on whether
applicants can do the job,
not when they
last had a job.
So when you hear me talk
about using my pen and my
phone to make a difference
for middle class Americans
and those working to get
into the middle class,
that's what I mean.
And I'm going to keep
asking students and
parents and business
leaders to help -
because there are millions
of Americans outside
Washington who are
tired of stale political
arguments, ready to move
this country forward,
and determined to restore
the founding vision of
opportunity for all.
And so am I.
Thanks, have a great
weekend, and to our
Olympians in
Sochi, go Team USA!